Topic 1: Introduction to Java & Development Environment Setup
Subtopic a: What is JDK?
🔹 JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit used to develop and run Java applications.
🔹 What does JDK include?

JRE (Java Runtime Environment): Runs Java programs.
JVM (Java Virtual Machine): Converts Java code into machine-understandable instructions.
Compiler (javac): Converts .java files into .class files (bytecode).
🔹 How to install JDK (Windows)?

Visit Oracle's official website.
Download the latest JDK version.
Run the installer and complete the installation.
To verify installation, run these commands in the terminal or command prompt:

java -version
javac -version

If you see version details, JDK is installed correctly.
Subtopic b: Setting Up IDE (Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA)
🔹 Installing Eclipse:

Download Eclipse from Eclipse.org.
Install it and set the Java Development Kit (JDK) path.
To create a new project:
Open Eclipse → File → New → Java Project → Enter project name → Click Finish.
🔹 Installing IntelliJ IDEA:

Download IntelliJ IDEA from JetBrains website.
Install and open IntelliJ → Click on "New Project" to create a Java project.
Subtopic c: Writing a "Hello World" Program
🔹 The simplest Java program:

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello, World!");
    }
}
🔹 Explanation:

public class HelloWorld { } → Defines a class named HelloWorld.
public static void main(String[] args) { } → The main method where execution starts.
System.out.println("Hello, World!"); → Prints "Hello, World!" on the screen.
🔹 How to run it in Eclipse or IntelliJ?

Create a new Java file (HelloWorld.java).
Copy-paste the above code.
Click "Run" or use the terminal command:
sh
Copy
Edit
javac HelloWorld.java   # Compiles the program
java HelloWorld         # Runs the program


✅ Summary of What You Learned Today:
✔ Installed JDK and set up Eclipse/IntelliJ.
✔ Wrote and executed the Hello World program.
✔ Learned about basic Java syntax, data types, and variables.

